One way to assess a business' readiness for data science initiatives,
is to see the degree to which they meet four scope conditions for data science success.
The first of these concerns data.
As I've said before,
data is a critical component,
perhaps the most critical component,
of a data science initiative.
Data can be structured,
which means it's represented neatly in categorical or numerical form and held in
tables or common data stores that can be easily managed in a few dimensions.
On the other hand,
often the case is that your data is unstructured.
It's embedded in free text, images,
or audio that's difficult to neatly organize due to high variability in dimensionality.
Regardless of whether your data is structured or unstructured,
you will need to source that data wherever it resides in the business
and build ETL pipelines to bring the data to the point of analytics.
The second scope condition has to do with data infrastructure.
We need to make sure that technical architecture supporting data collection and
storage is able to deliver high quality data to the point of analytics.
Moreover, we must ensure that proper data security is in place.
We'll talk more about data infrastructure in a lesson later in this course.
A third critical area is business processes.
We need to make sure that the right process
is set up for maintaining data science initiatives.
In particular, inside the data science organization,
I'm strongly in favor of using the Machine Learning Development Lifecycle, or MLDLC.
I've included some references to
the Machine Learning Development Lifecycle in the notes for this section.
Outside the data science organization,
we need to make sure that we have the business processes
in place to work with supporting organizations,
such as engineering, technology,
and the various functional areas that serve as the focus for data science projects.
Finally, the fourth scope condition that must be in
place concerns data science tools and frameworks.
When we approach data science development,
we need to make sure that we understand our choices in
the right direction with regard to programming languages,
machine learning libraries, and version control systems.
Once again, I've included several references for
these tools and frameworks in the notes for this section.